this is a short video detailing the
differences in cytokinesis between
plants and animal cells many of the
things when it comes to the process of
mitosis is the same with both plant and
animal cells but cytokinesis works a
little bit differently because plant
cells have an extra piece that animal
cells don't they're dealing with the
cell wall as well as the cell membrane
so if you remember going from telophase
in plant cells where we've got the two
nuclei starting to reform we got this
little thing called the cleavage furrow
forming in between what's eventually
going to be the two cells now once we
get into cytokinesis that's when the
cells actually pinch in half and you end
up with two daughter cells at the end of
the process
this step is relatively quick and simple
in animal cells in plant cells things
get a little bit more complex because of
the cell wall so we blow this one up and
take a look at it anaphase still pretty
much looks the same remember the word
we're associating with anaphase is a
part so this is where the chromosomes
are pulled apart to either pole of the
cell the thing that begins to happen
then during telophase is that vesicles
and if you remember vesicles from our
chapter on cells those are the things
that are coming from the Golgi apparatus
that carry cell products they're coming
and they're filled with what are called
cell wall components the cell wall in
plant cells is made out of something
called cellulose and these vesicles are
going to start to build up a cellulose
barrier the thing that this is called
this is referred to as the cell plate on
the inside there so that's one thing
that's not in this diagram that we're
going to add in but the cell plate is
this barrier that begins to form from
the materials and those vesicles and
then it says the vesicles fuse forming a
new cell wall you can see it happening
there and then during cytokinesis in
plant cells that new cell wall is
complete the cell is completely divided
and I like the way this picture portrays
things it does a very good job of
showing the chromosomes in this stage
there's still chromosomes but here
they're starting to D condense back into
the chromatin and also you can see the
dashed nucleus in this stage becoming
even closer to being a fully reformed
in the last picture they're representing
cytokinesis where the cells divide so
this picture does a very good job
filling in a lot of those important
details to make it simple all you really
need to know with the difference between
the two is the whole concept of the cell
plate and that extra step that needs to
be taken just because plants have the
cell wall to develop as well as the cell
membrane that we're seeing in animal
cells so as always thank you for
watching and I hope you learned
something